%{
title: "Your first Live View",
author: "Lubien",
tags: ~w(getting-started),
section: "Introduction",
description: "How to start programming with LiveView?",
previous_page_id: "getting-started",
next_page_id: "explain-playground"
}

---

## One step at a time

The Phoenix framework brings with it several tools configured so you don't have to worry: sending emails, real-time presence system, clustering, etc. For the sake of simplicity we will learn those things as we go so feel free to ignore all those files generated by the framework and let's focus on creating your first LiveView.

## The most basic LiveView

For convenience sake we will create a folder called `live` inside `lib/myapp_web` so we can store our LiveViews. The command below should do the trick:

```
mkdir lib/myapp_web/live
```

Then let's create our first LiveView. With your favorite editor, create a file called `page_live.ex` inside `lib/myapp_web/live`:


```elixir
# contents of page_live.ex

defmodule MyappWeb.PageLive do
  use MyappWeb, :live_view

  def render(assigns) do
    ~H"""
    Hello World
    """
  end
end

```

Now we need to tell Phoenix where this LiveView should be rendered at. Open `lib/myapp_web/router.ex` and look for a section just like this:

```elixir
scope "/", MyappWeb do
  pipe_through :browser

  get "/", PageController, :home
end
```

Replace `get "/", PageController, :home` with `live "/", PageLive, :home` and your hello world will be available at http://localhost:4000. Your router should look like this:

```elixir
scope "/", MyappWeb do
  pipe_through :browser

  live "/", PageLive, :home
end
```

## What did I just write?

We created a module `MyappWeb.PageLive` to be our first LiveView and we told Phoenix to render it at the root path `/`. As you can see at the very top we used `use MyappWeb, :live_view` to make it a LiveView by installing all the necessary behind the scenes code you don't need to worry about.

You may have noticed but there's a lot of MyappWeb going in there. This is because we are using the `MyappWeb` namespace for our LiveView. In Phoenix projects you will often see that projects called `Project` have a matching `ProjectWeb` module to encapsulate all the web-related code.

## Try it out

Try putting some HTML in your `render/1` function.

## Success!

Now that you have LiveView Playground in your hands, in the next steps we will understand what each piece of this code represents.
